I’d like to talk
about a very common expression
in the Bible.
The expression is:
“I am with you.”
Thirteen times it’s attributed
to a statement from Jehovah.
Three times it’s something that Jesus said
to one or more of his disciples.
Of course, there are dozens of other times
that the same sentiment
is expressed using similar wording.
Few things in the world
equal the joy humans experience
than the birth of a child.
As children grow up,
they are sometimes exposed to situations
that tend to cause nervousness
or even fear.
So a parent may occasionally feel compelled
to reassure a child:
“Have no fear; I am with you.”
Jehovah loves his servants
as if they were his children.
Likewise, at John 13:1,
Jesus’ feelings for his disciples
are well expressed.
There it says:
“Jesus, having loved his own
who were in the world,
loved them to the end.”
So when we face fears,
trials, or causes for anxiety,
both our heavenly Father and his Son, Jesus,
reassuringly say, “I am with you.”
Think of the righteous man Noah.
Genesis 6:9 says
that “Noah walked with the true God.”
There’s no doubt that Jehovah was with Noah.
He preserved him
and his family through the Flood.
Afterward,
Jehovah further proved he was with Noah.
In Genesis chapter 9, Jehovah said:
‘I am now establishing my covenant with you:
‘Never again will all flesh be destroyed
by the waters of a flood.’
Jehovah could have made that determination
and promised himself
that he wouldn’t do that again,
but instead, he reached out to Noah
and reassured him that he was with him
by making the rainbow covenant
with Noah and his offspring.
Using similar terminology,
Jehovah indicated
that he was with Abraham,
Isaac, Jacob, Joseph,
Moses, Joshua, and Gideon.
They were all individuals
whom Jehovah was pleased with,
so he reassured them that he was with them.
How about for a group of people?
Is Jehovah moved to feel the same way
toward a large crowd
of his servants collectively?
Please find with me Exodus 6:6, 7.
The whole nation of Israel
was experiencing severe trials
and suffering as slaves in Egypt.
Notice Jehovah’s reassurance
to the vast number of people.
Verses 6 and 7 state:
“Therefore, say to the Israelites:
“‘I am Jehovah,
“‘and I will bring you out
from under the burdens of the Egyptians
“‘and rescue you from their slavery,
“‘and I will reclaim you
with an outstretched arm
“‘and with great judgments.
“‘And I will take you in as my people,
and I will be your God,
“‘and you will certainly know
that I am Jehovah your God
who is bringing you out
from under the burdens of Egypt.’”
If that great, mixed group of people
would follow his leadings,
he said he’d ‘take them in’
and he ‘would be their God.’
What was he saying?
He was reassuring them:
“I will be with you,”
and he was.
For forty years in the wilderness,
he was with them
—feeding them, providing water for them,
ensuring that their clothes
and sandals would not wear out,
protecting them
from poisonous snakes, and so forth.
And later, when entering the land of promise,
he protected them during enemy warfare.
Jehovah promised to be with and to support
the kings of Israel
as long as they heeded
his commandments and direction.
King Solomon was told:
“Jehovah [your] God . . .
will not desert you or abandon you,
but he will be with you.”
King Asa was informed:
“Jehovah is with you
as long as you remain with him.”
When faced with overwhelming enemy forces,
King Jehoshaphat was told:
“Tomorrow go out against them,
and Jehovah will be with you.”
Jehovah also proved to be
with the many prophets
that he sent out in his name.
Just one example is Jeremiah.
Imagine if you had Jeremiah’s assignment.
Suppose you had been directed to deliver
a scathing denunciation and judgment
against wicked kings,
corrupt priests, and false prophets.
How would you feel?
underqualified?
Would you feel like a little child
challenging a whole group of evil grown-ups?
Notice how Jeremiah felt
as he expressed himself
at Jeremiah 1:6:
“But I said: ‘Alas, O Sovereign Lord Jehovah!
I do not know how to speak,
for I am just a boy.’”
What were Jehovah’s reassuring words
in reply?
Jeremiah 1:8, 9:
“‘Do not be afraid
“‘because of their appearance,
for “I am with you to save you,”
“declares Jehovah.’
“Then Jehovah stretched out his hand
and touched my mouth.
“And Jehovah said to me:
‘I have put my words in your mouth.’”
If Jehovah put the words
that you were to say “in your mouth,”
you’d no longer feel
like a little child, would you?
We don’t think of Jeremiah
as being an incredible superman;
he was a human like us.
It’s of interest that though Jeremiah
lived in another time and place,
he faced situations similar to those we face.
We interact with different types of people
in our daily life,
at work, and at school.
Some of them can be intimidating.
And like Jeremiah,
Jehovah has commissioned us
to go to strangers and preach.
We share the good news of the Kingdom.
Some are interested;
others are just plain apathetic.
But at times, we may come
across someone who is angry
and may even be threatening.
This is the time to remember Jeremiah.
Though initially timid,
he courageously faced
the challenge of an intimidating response.
How did he rally to the occasion?
It was because Jehovah had reassured him:
“I am with you.”
He said:
“I have put my words in your mouth.”
Does Jehovah do something similar for us?
Yes.
Long after Jeremiah
and the other faithful ones
who are recorded
in the Hebrew Scriptures came and went,
Jehovah has proved to be
with true Christians,
both past and present.
Find with me John chapter 8.
Think of Jesus.
It’s true he was a perfect man,
but did Jehovah leave him all alone?
At John 8:16,
what did Jesus himself say?
“And yet even if I do judge,
my judgment is truthful,
“because I am not alone,
but the Father who sent me is with me.”
We might be thinking
of that intimidating person in the ministry.
Even if you are facing the person
without a fellow Witness standing beside you,
are you really all alone?
Jesus knew that at the most stressful
and emotionally draining time
during his human life,
his disciples would leave him all alone.
But was he really alone?
Let’s read the inspired account
at John 16:32.
Again, these are Jesus’ own words:
“Look! The hour is coming,
indeed, it has come,
“when each one of you
will be scattered to his own house
“and you will leave me alone.
“But I am not alone,
because the Father is with me.”
Jesus was not alone
during his most anxious moments.
Jehovah was with him.
If you think you are alone
standing at the door
of an irritated householder,
think again.
Jehovah is with you.
You have more with you
than if you had your whole congregation
standing in the person’s front yard.
Well, why did Jesus share
this precious insight with us?
Look at the next verse.
Jesus explains his reason
for saying what he did.
John 16:33:
“I have said these things to you
“so that by means of me you may have peace.
“In the world you will have tribulation,
“but take courage!
I have conquered the world.”
We thank Jesus for addressing
our fears and concerns when giving a witness.
Instead of trembling with fear,
he shared his confidence in Jehovah’s support
so that we “may have peace.”
He acknowledged
that we would face tribulation,
but he said
that we could look at his example
and have courage
to deal with the tribulation.
Why?
Jesus said in verse 32
that it was
because ‘the Father was with him.’
Do you recall that Jehovah told Jeremiah:
“I have put my words in your mouth?”
Can Jehovah do the same for us
when we are opposed by unbelievers?
The Christian Greek Scriptures
answer with a resounding yes!
Please follow along with the reading
of the book of Mark chapter 13,
and please notice
that the setting Jesus describes
is in the ministry,
preaching the good news.
Maybe you’ve had a good morning in service,
but then you take one more door.
The person is irate
and even calls the police.
What should you do?
What will you say when the police arrive?
You don’t have to be overly concerned.
Why not?
Because similar to Jeremiah,
Jehovah will, in effect,
put His words in your mouth.
Mark 13:10, 11 says:
“Also, in all the nations,
the good news has to be preached first.
“And when they are taking you
to hand you over,
“do not be anxious beforehand
about what to say;
“but whatever is given you
in that hour, say this,
“for you are not the ones speaking,
but the holy spirit is.”
By this, do we mean that Jehovah
will miraculously put words
in your mouth for you to say?
Not necessarily.
Did you notice verse 11 said
that “the holy spirit” is the one speaking?
You’ve been taught the basis
for your faith from the Scriptures,
and you know the reason
that you teach the Bible’s message.
That’s all stored in your mind.
So, what’s the holy spirit’s role
when we are in an intimidating situation
when sharing the good news?
Jehovah is with you.
He uses his holy spirit
to bring to the surface
some of those precious gems
that might be buried in your mind.
You may be amazed at what you remember
when put under pressure by the authorities
or even by outright opposers.
In this way, Jehovah is with you.
Add to the fact that Jesus is with you
in the disciple-making work.
Let’s be reminded
of this very encouraging thought
at Matthew 28:19, 20.
Jesus was discussing our commission
to preach, teach, and make disciples.
And how does he conclude
the Bible book of Matthew?
Let’s read Matthew 28:19, 20:
“Go, therefore, and make disciples
of people of all the nations,
“baptizing them in the name of the Father
“and of the Son and of the holy spirit,
“teaching them to observe
all the things I have commanded you.
“And look!
I am with you all the days
until the conclusion
of the system of things.”
Jesus said that he is with us now
when we are making disciples
and teaching people the truth.
And he promises
he’ll support us in this important work
until the end
of this wicked system of things.
As prophesied, during this time
of the conclusion of the system,
we are being persecuted
in different areas of the world.
As the Scriptures show,
Satan and his angels
are “misleading the entire inhabited earth.”
Recently, Jehovah’s people
have been persecuted in Russia.
But will the persecution
succeed in eliminating
true worship in that area of the world?
No!
Why not?
It’s because Jehovah is with them.
He and Jesus promised: “I am with you.”
Russia did not learn from the past.
It will prove to be the same for them
as it was for Nazi Germany under Hitler.
Hitler thought his regime
could eradicate
true worship and God’s people
from areas under their control.
But they made a big mistake.
While it is true
that they murdered some 2,000 brothers,
in the end, their scheme ended up in failure.
Why?
Because God was with us, not with them.
“God with us”
—those words have decorated national emblems
and even the uniforms of soldiers of Prussia
and the Czarist Russian Empire.
These words were also
on the belts of German troops
when they marched into Belgium
in the year 1914 of our Common Era.
But they had it wrong!
The Sovereign Lord Jehovah
was with us, not with them.
He’s with all of us now.
He’ll be with us during Armageddon.
He’ll be with us after Armageddon.
He’ll be with us at the end
of the Thousand Year Reign of Christ.
He’ll be with mankind
at the end of 100,000 years.
He’ll be with humans
at the end of 100 million years
and at the end of 100 million years
times 100 million years.
Jehovah will be with mankind forever,
and so will Jesus!
They are both on record as saying:
“I am with you”!